hello I'm Kylie pentelow welcome to BBC
News Now 3 hours of fast moving News
interviews and reaction first the
Israeli military has rescued two of the
hostages abducted by Hamas during a raid
in the Gaza Strip the release of the
hostages was announced shortly after
Israel carried out an intense aerial
bombardment of the southern city of Rafa
well this was the scene after those
Israeli strikes this morning the
spokesman for the Hamas run Health
minister says at least 67 Palestinians
were killed a doctor at a nearby
hospital said it was unable to cope with
the number of injured helicopters and
Boats were also involved in the attack
the two Israeli hostages Fernando Maron
and Louis har seen here reunited with
their families are said to be in a good
condition it's thought to be only the
second time Israel has carried out a
successful military operation to rescue
hostages the Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu said only continued
military pressure will free more
hostages Israel's offensive in Rafa
looks set to continue our International
editor Jeremy Bowen examines whether
this is to become the next Battle Zone
in Gaza where will they take us what
will they do with us Rafa is the most
southerly town in
Gaza and it's the place where most of
the population of Gaza has been fleeing
to as the Israelis have advanced from
the north
you can see the influx of people from
these satellite pictures now you can see
the difference all those little markings
are tense there are about 1.4 million
people estimated to be in Rafa that's
five times its usual population they
thought they might be safer there but
now Israel says they're going to attack
we have instructed the Army to prepare
the operation in Rafa the Israelis say
moving in on Rafa is a military
necessity in pursuit of what the Prime
Minister calls total Victory against
Damas they want to get into those
tunnels we're going to get them one M
after another one tunnel after another
and as well as that they want to get
more than a 100 Israeli hostages back so
many people have ended up in Rafa
because they've been pushed down from
the north and there's nowhere else for
them to go they've reached the Border
they're living in terrible conditions
there exhausted after 4 months of War we
hear that the Israelis are a military
operation in the South where will they
take
us the Israelis say that they can open a
safe passage for civilians in Rafa but
the man who heads the UN agency that
looks after Palestinian refugees doesn't
believe them we haven't seen any safe
even since the beginning of the war but
there is nothing safe in Gaza the
problem with Israel's argument is a safe
passage to where north of them there's
the devastation of War and the Israeli
Army
south of them there's the closed
Egyptian
border well let's speak to uh Jeremy now
so we have two Israeli hostages rescued
67 Palestinians killed will Netanyahu
Jeremy see this latest offensive as a
success well to start with the Israelis
are saying this is not the big offensive
that people have been talking about uh
you know the issue as I was saying in
that video the issue
is that they they want to go down and uh
as they would see it go after Hamas in
that area but there are these roughly
million and a half civilians who were
also there um so this was a raid to get
those hostages out and the Army the
Israeli Army has been saying that
they've known about their whereabouts
for some time and they've been planning
this and they decided to go in under a
very heavy bombardment and subsequently
is they pulled out an even heavier
bombardment which is why so many
Palestinians were killed but it's not
the big raid however of course for Mr
Netanyahu it's Vindication of his point
of view which he says to get hostages
out it's not about doing deals with the
terrorists of Hamas it's actually about
showing that Israel is strong and
remorseless and uh and that Hamas will
therefore be forced to give up the
people we saw in your report there that
um the the population of Rafa has
swelled um people seeking safety heading
there but but they face further attacks
what what can they do
now I think the people in Rafa at the
moment are there's nothing they can do
uh when they they they talk in terms
that we sit here waiting for our fate we
talk here we sit here waiting for death
as's they've ended up in Rafa because
they've they've run out of places to
hide they've gone right down to the
south of Gaza and the the very heavily
defended Egyptian border is a hard stop
for them uh the so the uh the Americans
are putting a lot of pressure on Israel
if they're going to attack in a big way
Rafa I mean a really big way taking days
or weeks is to move those people out so
there are some theories that they might
be moved back up to the north of Gaza
which by the way is a
wasteland uh but I mean how moving 1.5
million people in short order uh you
know it's a I think there's a lot of
magical thinking involved in those
theories I I don't see where anywhere in
Gaza is
safe what is the situation like that
you're hearing from from people in refer
at the moment we're going to be speaking
to someone from UNICEF uh who who's in
Rafa but but it is the situation as dire
as we're
hearing I think it's desperate I think
it's absolutely desperate these are
people don't forget who many of whom
have lost everything their homes further
north are in Ruins many of them have
lost members of their famili sometimes
large numbers of people from their
families they haven't had they haven't
eaten properly in a long time shortages
of water uh living out of
doors uh it is you know it's not like
they're on a camping holiday there
they're in they're they are uh going
through massive trauma that is going to
affect the the way they think and look
at life I think from until the day that
they
die okay Jeremy B we'll leave it there
for now thank you very much for joining
us well as we've been reporting the
Hamas ran Health Ministry says at least
67 people died in a bar of Israeli air
strikes this Palestinian described what
happened during the Israeli
bombardment at approximately midnight we
heard the sounds of strong explosions as
if hell had opened up on the
civilians look what happened the
Israelis claimed that they freed
hostages from this place but we don't
know what happened we were sleeping in
our homes and we don't know anything
we didn't see any hostages here but we
saw a helicopter landing there was Heavy
shooting as if it was a very big battle
the world has turned into hell for the
lives of
civilians well the UK's foreign
secretary Lord Cameron has warned
against a planned Israeli invasion of
Rafa which is providing Refuge to more
than half of gaza's 2.3 million
population well we are very concerned
about what is happening in in Rafa
because let's be clear the people there
many of them have moved four five six
times before getting there and uh it
really we think is impossible to to see
how you can can fight a war amongst
these people there's nowhere for them to
go uh they can't go south into Egypt
they can't go north in back to their
homes because many have been destroyed
so we are very concerned about the
situation and we want Israel to stop and
think very seriously before it takes any
further action but above all what we
want is an immediate pause in the
fighting and we want that pause to lead
to a ceasefire a sustainable ceasefire
without a return um to further fighting
that's what should happen now uh we need
to get those hostages out including the
British Nationals we need to get the aid
in the best way to do that is stop the
fighting now and turn that into a
permanent sustainable ceasefire Lord
Cameron there well this bombar follows
Israel saying that two hostages held by
Hamas have been rescued in that raid in
Rafa in southern Gaza Adan berer and Aro
is a relative of the two hostages who
are rescued let's hear from him after he
was reunited with them at hospital we
were a bit shocked we didn't know we we
haven't expected
it and we saw them and the heart was
beating on 200 maybe maybe more and a
lot of Tears hugs not many words just
being together surrounded by the family
and surrounded by our beloved people
that were without us for so long more
than four months we were so happy to see
them um I can't I I don't know what is
the real situation that they are
mentally um they look okay physically
they look okay but I'm sure that you
know we're going to have ups and downs
in the coming days or weeks and we
really um hope for good and we wish them
H good health
was a relative of two of those host
hostages rescued there well let's speak
now to heish Young Who is the senior
emergency coordinator for Unicef Gaza
and he joins me from Rafa thanks so much
for your time we do appreciate it here
on BBC News uh can you tell me what it
was like in Rafa last
night uh thanks Kylie um I think I can
just verify what some of your previous
speakers said um it was horrendous the
bombarding started around midnight
perhaps a bit before that um and it was
relentless certainly nobody in Rafa got
any sleep last night um you know we were
well the bombardment was all over Rafa
um I I believe some of it was a
distraction from the actual operation
that went on so it was going on
everywhere our building was shaking all
night um of course we we had the
privilege to live in a a a good building
I I can only imagine what it was like
for people who are the vast majority of
whom are living in tent and makeshift
shelters um it was uh yeah it was very
um it was horrendous I think you've
already been given the numbers we've got
the same um around 70 casualties 14
residential buildings uh um destroyed
but I think uh if I can kyli it's really
important to to get Beyond those numbers
because you know in situations like this
we' we've become overwhelmed by the
numbers and we become some somehow
immune to them um this morning when I
got into this makeshift facility where
we are now this is the coordinated
Operation Center where the UN ngo's work
one of my colleagues a Palestinian
colleague from um one of the other
organizations working here um was trying
to relate what the story you know what
last night was like for him and he just
broke down weeping telling us how he was
lying under his bed with two young
granddaughters clinging to him both of
them just screaming hysterically uh
throughout the night um with every every
blast that went off um and uh you know
children just should not have to suffer
this children should not have to go
through this thousands of Israeli
children have been traumatized by what
happened on the 7th of October and now
you know all the children of Gaza um are
are are terribly traumatized by
everything uh that's going on now we're
seeing pictures of the uh the C in um
Rafa there and as as we've been saying
so many people fled there for safety
what is the situation like on the ground
for people there so the situation on the
ground in Rafa is already catastrophic I
mean I think it's people need to to
realize that it's not going to be made
catastrophic by uh um a full ground
Invasion it already is catastrophic
there's barely enough food for everyone
to eat there's not enough water there's
not enough Medical Services or medicines
um all children have been out of school
since uh the beginning of October
there's massive overcrowding with
hundreds of thousands of children um and
and their families living in appalling
conditions like I said the lucky ones
are intense um many many are living in
makeshift shelters um it's really cold
here at night I can't I can't imagine
what it's like um you know trying to
take care of uh small children out there
um you know there is relief coming in
organizations like UNICEF and many other
good organizations are are doing their
best we've bought in hundreds of
thousands of pieces of warm clothing for
example um for kids um ourselves and wh
are bringing in medical supplies and
vaccines wh and unra of course are doing
a lot world food program is bringing in
a lot of food um but there are so many
obstacles in the way the security
situation makes it very difficult to
work um and there are many many
bureaucratic obstructions that are put
in our way um there's limitations on the
trucks there's limitations on our
movement um there are limitations at
every step of the way that make it uh
very very difficult for the humanitarian
organizations to work make it difficult
for us to reach and take care of
children who are in dire need hey Miss
Young from UNICEF there in Rafa Forest
thank you very much thanks
kly we